End of year blog post (#1816)
google/osv.dev: gcp/appengine/blog/content/posts/2023-in-review/index.md

---
title: "The Year in Review"
date: 2023-12-04T17:00:00Z
draft: true
author: The OSV Team
---
2023 has been a *very* eventful year for OSV.

## New ecosystems support

[OSV Schema](https://github.com/ossf/osv-schema) adoption continues to grow!

> This year alone, 8 new ecosystems have adopted the schema, enabling them to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This year alone, 8 new ecosystems have adopted the schema, and are now
```

included in our [OSV.dev](https://osv.dev/list) database:

* [AlmaLinux](https://osv.dev/blog/posts/almalinux-and-rocky-linux-join-osv/)
* [Bitnami](https://github.com/bitnami/vulndb)
* [Curl](https://curl.se/docs/vuln.json) (currently blocked on [#1235](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/issues/1235) for ingestion into OSV.dev)
* [Malicious Packages](https://openssf.org/blog/2023/10/12/introducing-openssfs-malicious-packages-repository/)
* [R](https://github.com/RConsortium/r-advisory-database)
* [Rocky Linux](https://osv.dev/blog/posts/almalinux-and-rocky-linux-join-osv/)
* [Haskell](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories)
* [Python Software Foundation](https://discuss.python.org/t/the-python-software-foundation-has-been-authorized-by-the-cve-program-as-a-cve-numbering-authority-cna/32561/3)

This has brought the total number of supported ecosystems to 20. In particular,
we have seen increased interest from Linux distributions, and expect to see
further growth in adoption in 2024.

### C/C++

> C and C++ dependencies remain a critical pillar of our open source supply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
C and C++ dependencies remain a critical pillar of open source supply
```

chains. OSV.dev's coverage of C and C++ vulnerabilities with vulnerable commit
ranges expanded significantly, with the [introduction of OSV records generated
from CVE records in the
NVD](https://osv.dev/blog/posts/introducing-broad-c-c++-support/) bringing in
over 30,000 more advisories with commit-level detail.

In conjunction with the [experimental determineversion
API](https://osv.dev/blog/posts/using-the-determineversion-api/), this enables
OSV-Scanner to be able to detect vulnerabilities in C and C++ dependencies used
as submodules or directly vendored into source code, closing one of the
remaining coverage gaps in many vulnerability scanners.

## Infrastructure

Behind the scenes, there's been a lot of work to optimize OSV.dev's API for
performance and reliability, to ensure we maintain our [Service Level
Objectives](https://google.github.io/osv.dev/faq/#what-are-osvs-service-level-objectives-slos),
which we also defined this year.

We saw a peak API usage of 4k QPS in November.

> ![Image shows the GitHub star history for all OSV-related GitHub repositories taken at November 17, 2023](star-history-20231117.png "GitHub star history for all OSV repos, as at 2023/11/17")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Image shows the GitHub star history for all OSV-related GitHub repositories taken at November 17, 2023](star-history-20231117.png "GitHub star history for all OSV repos, as of 2023/11/17")
```

> ![Image shows the GitHub star history for all OSV-related GitHub repositories taken at November 17, 2023](star-history-20231117.png "GitHub star history for all OSV repos, as at 2023/11/17")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Image shows the GitHub star history for all OSV-related GitHub repositories taken at November 17, 2023. osv-schema has approximately 150 stars, osv.dev has approximately 1,300 stars, and osv-scanner has approximately 5,400 stars.](star-history-20231117.png "GitHub star history for all OSV repos, as of 2023/11/17")
```

Author: Thank you

## Community

There’s been a very pleasing uptick in both interest and external contributions
to both OSV.dev ([23 total contributors](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/graphs/contributors?from=2023-01-01&to=2023-12-31&type=c)) and OSV-Scanner ([32 total contributors](https://github.com/google/osv-scanner/graphs/contributors?from=2023-01-01&to=2023-12-31&type=c))

We also gave an [update on OSV at the OpenSSF Day Europe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WvMXsm_BEf4), in Bilbao, Spain in
September.

## Tooling
Since OSV-Scanner's launch [one year
ago](https://security.googleblog.com/2022/12/announcing-osv-scanner-vulnerability.html),

> it has grown to account for at least TBD% of OSV.dev's API traffic and now

Author: Thanks for the reminder, I was having some challenges pulling this metric...

consistency and high data quality across all data sources. We plan to provide
better validation tools, and build feedback channels to  make it easier for OSV
data sources to ensure high quality of data.

### 2. Accuracy and comprehensiveness of scanning
A continuing focus for OSV-Scanner is making sure that our scanning is
comprehensive and accurate. Accuracy is especially important for us, as one of
our core goals is to minimize false positives and vulnerability noise for
developers at the receiving end of the scanners.

### 3. Container scanning
OSV-Scanner has so far focused on scanning of source repositories. One important
gap we aim to fill is to provide better support for scanning of containers, in a
way that provides actionable and useful remediation guidance.

### 4. Remediation tools 
Developers are often faced with an overwhelming number of vulnerabilities
reported against their dependencies. We are currently building tooling to enable
developers to both interactively and automatically prioritize and fix the
vulnerabilities that matter in an easy way.

Here’s a quick preview of what we have been working on: 

> ![](guided_remediation1.png "A screenshot of the guided remediation tooling under development")

Reviewer: Include 1 sentence description of what the image demonstrates as alt text.

Author: Whoops, thanks for catching that. Fixed in a1f13a1

> ![](guided_remediation2.png "A screenshot of the guided remediation tooling under development")

Reviewer: Include 1 sentence description of what the image demonstrates as alt text.

Author: Whoops, thanks for catching that. Fixed in a1f13a1

> ![A sneak preview of the current UX of the guided remediation tooling under development](guided_remediation1.png "A screenshot of the guided remediation tooling under development")

Reviewer: These two images should have slightly different alt texts and titles. Be more descriptive about what they are showing.

---
title: "The Year in Review"
date: 2023-12-04T17:00:00Z

> draft: true

Reviewer: Update date and draft status

Reviewer: Awesome thank you!

This will need to be adjusted if your release happens before Tuesday morning, but I think it should be ok.

Behind the scenes, we've optimized OSV.dev's API for performance and reliability, to ensure we maintain our [recently defined](https://osv.dev/blog/posts/announcing-osv-service-level-objectives/) [Service Level Objectives](https://google.github.io/osv.dev/faq/#what-are-osvs-service-level-objectives-slos).

We saw peaks in API usage of over 250 QPS in November.

![Image shows the GitHub star history for all OSV-related GitHub repositories taken at November 17, 2023. osv-schema has approximately 150 stars, osv.dev has approximately 1,300 stars, and osv-scanner has approximately 5,400 stars.](star-history-20231117.png "GitHub star history for all OSV repos, as of 2023/11/17")

## Community

There’s been a very pleasing uptick in both interest and external contributions
to both OSV.dev ([23 total contributors](https://github.com/google/osv.dev/graphs/contributors?from=2023-01-01&to=2023-12-31&type=c)) and OSV-Scanner ([32 total contributors](https://github.com/google/osv-scanner/graphs/contributors?from=2023-01-01&to=2023-12-31&type=c))

We also gave an [update on OSV at the OpenSSF Day Europe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WvMXsm_BEf4), in Bilbao, Spain in September.

## Tooling

> Since OSV-Scanner's launch [one year ago](https://security.googleblog.com/2022/12/announcing-osv-scanner-vulnerability.html), it has grown to account for at least TBD% of OSV.dev's API traffic and now includes the following features:

Reviewer: @oliverchang We either need to update this statistic (currently shown as TBD%) or we should cut it. Do you know what the percent should be.

* [Reachability analysis](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/#scanning-with-call-analysis) to reduce false positives
  * [GoVulnCheck] integration to enable reachability analysis of Go vulnerabilities
  * Experimental Rust call analysis to enable reachability analysis of Rust vulnerabilities
* Comprehensive [C/C++ vulnerability management support](https://osv.dev/blog/posts/introducing-broad-c-c++-support/)
  * Git submodule scanning
  * Vendored dependency detection
* Improved ecosystem and scanning format support
  * Improved SBOM support
  * NuGet
  * ConanCenter
* An experimental [offline mode](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/#offline-mode)
* An experimental [GitHub Action](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/github-action/) (including SARIF output support)

> * An experimental license scanning feature.

Reviewer: Add a link to Josie's blog. That will be going first.

---
title: "The Year in Review"
date: 2023-12-11T17:00:00Z

> draft: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
draft: false
```

We also gave an [update on OSV at the OpenSSF Day Europe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WvMXsm_BEf4), in Bilbao, Spain in September.

## Tooling
Since OSV-Scanner's launch [one year ago](https://security.googleblog.com/2022/12/announcing-osv-scanner-vulnerability.html), we've added
several significant new features. 

* [Reachability analysis](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/#scanning-with-call-analysis) to reduce false positives
  * [GoVulnCheck] integration to enable reachability analysis of Go vulnerabilities
  * Experimental Rust call analysis to enable reachability analysis of Rust vulnerabilities
* Comprehensive [C/C++ vulnerability management support](https://osv.dev/blog/posts/introducing-broad-c-c++-support/)
  * Git submodule scanning
  * Vendored dependency detection
* Improved ecosystem and scanning format support
  * Improved SBOM support
  * NuGet
  * ConanCenter
* An experimental [offline mode](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/experimental/#offline-mode)
* An experimental [GitHub Action](https://google.github.io/osv-scanner/github-action/) (including SARIF output support)

> * An experimental license scanning feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An experimental [license scanning feature](https://osv.dev/blog/posts/introducing-license-scanning-with-osv-scanner/)
```
